# Install manual:

Urd is now pretty stable. That doesn't means that everything always runs 
smoothly. Nevertheless, it is quite functional. And in case of any trouble
we are there to help or fix things at the forum: http://www.urdland.com/forum

There are two ways to install URD
1. By using the tar ball
2. By using the deb package (ony any system that looks like debian or uses 
   apt-get.




Prerequisites:

Required:
- PHP >5.1.0 (Web and CLI version)
- MySQL 5.0 or other database
- a webserver (apache)
- yydecode (required)
- unrar    (highly recommended)
- par2     (highly recommended)
- cksfv    (recommended)
- trickle  (if you want to use traffic shaping)


Installation by tar ball
1) Install the required programs mentioned above manually
2) Untar the URD tarball to a directory readable by the webserver or copy the 
   urd.conf file to the apache conf directory and restart apache.
3) Open 'install.php' in your web browser and follow the install procedure
4) Optionally: Run the install.sh from the console as root (eg 
   sudo ./install.php) to create a system user and group for urd
5) Edit the configuration of URD and fix all the red "hand" (admin/config in 
   the menu)
6) Start urdd (by clicking on the URD offline image top left) - the newsgroup
   list should automatically be downloaded. (Otherwise this can be done 
   manually in admin/control)
7) Subscribe to newsgroups or rss feeds
8) Wait for newsgroup/feed updating to finish
9) Browse some sets and start downloading, creating nzbs etc.

Installation by .deb file
1) run 
   sudo dpkg -i urd-x.y.z-n.deb
   This should install all the needed packages
2) Proceed to step 3 of the tarball install.


You can change preferences in the Preferences page, such as the number of lines 
per page, length of set names, search buttons etc.

If there are any problems please go to the forum for known problems and 
solutions:
http://www.urdland.com/forum

Check the URD website at:
http://www.urdland.com/

Or contact the authors: dev@urdland.com

